docs: content for module 2 (#7)
asyncapi/learning-paths: 100-level-AsyncAPI-Intro/step1.md

Eve assumes her problem-solving role and approaches the spaceship. Inside, Eve discovers Chan, a programming genius visiting from Brownieterra. It becomes apparent that a technical glitch has affected the ship's communication system.

With her expertise in event-driven architecture (EDA) and AsyncAPI, Eve swiftly springs into action. She formulates a plan to establish seamless communication among the spaceship's components in collaboration with Chan.

Eve begins by providing Chan with a comprehensive explanation of event-driven architecture (EDA) and outlines the process of designing an EDA system using AsyncAPI.

## Event-driven architecture

An event signifies a change in the system's state that triggers communication between different services. Event-driven architecture (EDA) decomposes an application into several components interacting via events. These components encompass event producers and consumers:

> - An event **producer** identifies an event and transmits relevant information through the event channel.

Reviewer: Small suggestion. Use `send` instead of transmit since it is part of our ubiquitous language (send/receive). 
```suggestion
- An event **producer** identifies an event and sends relevant information through the event channel.
```

- An event **consumer** subscribes to an event channel to receive and process event data.

Each component can fulfill the role of an event producer, consumer, or both.

As Eve continues her conversation with Chan, she realizes she hasn't offered him a beverage. She quickly rushes to prepare a cup of coffee. While making the coffee, she draws upon a coffee shop as an analogy: a customer (producer) places an order for an espresso (event), conveying the order details to the barista (consumer). The sequence unfolds as follows:

> 1. The customer initiates an espresso order (an event), and the barista receives the order details.

Reviewer: Just wondering if it would make sense to add the role of the barista here as well? 

```suggestion
1. The customer initiates an espresso order (an event), and the barista (the event consumer) receives the order details.
```

Author: It definitely does, i would add customer as event producer as well.

> 2. Subsequently, the barista processes the order and begins crafting the espresso (a response to the event).

Reviewer: I would say there is a missing step here that needs to be added in order to prove it is an asynchronous transaction.
Let me clarify that the customer, if it's waiting in the queue line and didn't pay yet, it is waiting actively that (to pay and get the coffee). I would say this can sound confusing and not be really taken as an asynchronous transaction/process (more people are waiting to order behind you!).

What if, after paying, the customer goes to a table and later, once the coffee gets crafted, the barista serves it right directly into the table? Another alternative could be the typical Starbucks model, where you pay and you go to another place to take it once they call you (response) by your name.

Author: This example would explain asynchronous transactions better, but maybe it could make the example a bit complicated.

Reviewer 2: Ah, I struggled at first to incorporate Sergio's feedback on this one. After mulling it over, I agree with Sergio that a step is missing to qualify as asynchronous communication. Here's how I recommend you update it @kakabisht 😸:

---

As Eve continues her conversation with Chan, she realizes she hasn't yet offered him a beverage. She decides to make a cup of coffee and uses the concept of a coffee shop as an analogy for asynchronous communication:

1. A customer (producer) orders an espresso (event) and pays for it, akin to sending a message in an asynchronous system.
2. After paying, the customer moves to a separate area, such as a table or the waiting zone, freeing up the queue. This separation of order placement and fulfillment zones mirrors the decoupling in asynchronous transactions.
3. The barista (consumer) processes the order and, once the espresso is prepared, delivers it to the customer at their table or calls the customer by name to collect it from the counter. This step signifies the completion of the asynchronous process, where the response (the prepared coffee) is received without the customer actively waiting at the counter.

---

Author: Fixed

In this coffee shop scenario, event-driven architecture mirrors the seamless flow of orders and drinks without any disruption, ensuring a smooth and efficient operation.
Chan asks Eve how the AsyncAPI specification impacts the event-driven architecture world.

## Event-driven architecture with AsyncAPI

> AsyncAPI simplifies the definition of communication and message exchange among different components in an Event-Driven Architecture (EDA). It provides a structured way to describe events, channels, and message formats, enhancing overall understanding.

Reviewer: Minor: What about this little addition? 

```suggestion
AsyncAPI simplifies the definition of communication and message exchange among different components in an Event-Driven Architecture (EDA). It provides a structured way to describe events, channels, and message formats, enhancing overall understanding. It ends up being a contract.
```

Author: I am not sure, about this. Could you please explain what do you mean by a ends up being a contract?

Reviewer 2: The term "contract" in the context of AsyncAPI and Event-Driven Architectures (EDA) refers to the agreed-upon format and protocol for communication between different components or services within a system. When we say AsyncAPI "ends up being a contract," it means that the AsyncAPI specification acts as a formal agreement between various parts of the system on how messages should be structured, how events are communicated, and how channels are used for these communications.

Author: Fixed

> AsyncAPI helps you define asynchronous APIs. Asynchronous APIs are like digital mailboxes where you can send messages without waiting for an instant reply. When the other person reads your letter and has something to say, they will reply. AsyncAPI maps out events and their responses in an EDA.

Reviewer: Not sure my suggestion it is well formulated but I would suggest we include something else extra besides just events.

```suggestion
AsyncAPI helps you define asynchronous APIs. Asynchronous APIs are like digital mailboxes where you can send messages without waiting for an instant reply. When the other person reads your letter and has something to say, they will reply. AsyncAPI maps out events, their communication channels, and the responses in an EDA.
```

Chan spots cake in Eve's kitchen and asks for a slice as she likes cakes. While offering her a slice, Eve gives an example: imagine a birthday party with events like cake cutting and gift opening. These events trigger responses, such as singing during the cake-cutting or clapping while opening the gifts.

AsyncAPI helps organize events, determining when they'll occur and how everyone should react. For example, during the cake cutting, AsyncAPI guides in singing the birthday song. It also enables the creation of a party schedule, like cutting the cake at 6 pm and opening gifts at 7 pm.

Here are reasons why using AsyncAPI enhances EDA design:

> * AsyncAPI plans and describes each event and its corresponding reactions across different components.

Reviewer: I don't fully agree on this one. Related with the previous sentence `determining when they'll occur and how everyone should react`.

AsyncAPI doesn't describe the message flow per se, except in the case of a request/reply, where it just defines one expected interaction but nothing else. For describing the flows, https://serverlessworkflow.io is the closest specification.

Author: Understood.

* AsyncAPI facilitates communication between different components for seamless information exchange.

> * AsyncAPI allows components to complete tasks independently without waiting.

Reviewer: It is not really allowing that IMHO. At most it allows to set a contract between senders and receivers and can help with its auth policies, etc. Remotely it lowers the entry barrier by generating some code.

In general, those 3 points are not really explaining why you should use AsyncAPI for you EDAs.

Author: Could you suggest me some points that better describe why to use AsyncAPI for EDAs?

Reviewer 2: I would DM sergio directly for this question too @kakabisht 😸, it looks like a short convo might clarify this item.

Author: I did ping sergio :-)

Reviewer 2: Great! Did you get clarification on what to update? How was this resolved? :)

Eve goes on to show Chan how AsyncAPI can enhance communication between microservices.

## Microservices with AsyncAPI

In a microservices architecture, each microservice represents a specific function. Different microservices communicate using events, similar to how teams collaborate on tasks. For example, one team handles baking the birthday cake, while another focuses on decorating the room. These teams must communicate to share their progress.

For AsyncAPI to help different microservices communicate with each other, they must:

* Define how to send and receive messages
* Schedule when to send these messages

> * Ensure consistent language in messages

Reviewer: I don't get those two points. I think those have nothing to do with AsyncAPI.

> AsyncAPI ensures that each microservice knows what information it will receive, how it will receive, and what it should do with it. 

Reviewer: > and what it should do with it. 

As explained in previous points, this is not true usually.

> Eve takes on the role of the problem solver once again and approaches the spaceship. Inside, Eve finds Chan, a programming genius from Brownieterra. There was a technical glitch in the ship's communication system.
> 
> Eve dives into action with her knowledge of Event-driven architecture and AsyncAPI. Eve plans to develop effective communication between the spaceship's components with Chan.
> 
> Eve starts by explaining event-driven architecture (EDA) and how to design EDA with AsyncAPI to Chan.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Eve assumes her problem-solving role and approaches the spaceship. Inside, Eve discovers Chan, a programming genius visiting from Brownieterra. It becomes apparent that a technical glitch has affected the ship's communication system.

With her expertise in event-driven architecture (EDA) and AsyncAPI, Eve swiftly springs into action. She formulates a plan to establish seamless communication among the spaceship's components in collaboration with Chan.

Eve begins by providing Chan with a comprehensive explanation of event-driven architecture (EDA) and outlines the process of designing an EDA system using AsyncAPI.
```

## Event-driven architecture

> An event signifies a change in the system's state that triggers an action to communicate between different services. EDA breaks down an app into multiple loosely coupled components communicating through events. These components consist of event producers and consumers:
> 
> * An event producer detects an event and transmits the information to the consumers through the event channel.
> * An event consumer subscribed to an event channel to receive information and process events.
> 
> Each component can act as an event producer, consumer, or both.
> 
> Eve then remembers that she didn't offer Chan a beverage. So, she quickly rushes to make a cup of coffee for Chan. While making coffee, Eve considers a coffee shop as an example: a customer(producer) requests an espresso(event), communicating order details to the barista(consumer). The following process happens,
> 
> 1. The customer orders an espresso(an event), and the barista receives the order details.
> 1. The barista then processes the order and starts making an espresso(a response to an event).
> 
> So, event-driven architecture in a coffee shop is like the seamless flow of orders and drinks without everything stopping for one specific thing. It keeps things moving smoothly.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An event signifies a change in the system's state that triggers communication between different services. Event-driven architecture (EDA) decomposes an application into several components interacting via events. These components encompass event producers and consumers:

- An event **producer** identifies an event and transmits relevant information through the event channel.
- An event **consumer** subscribes to an event channel to receive and process event data.

Each component can fulfill the role of an event producer, consumer, or both.

As Eve continues her conversation with Chan, she realizes she hasn't offered him a beverage. She quickly rushes to prepare a cup of coffee. While making the coffee, she draws upon a coffee shop as an analogy: a customer (producer) places an order for an espresso (event), conveying the order details to the barista (consumer). The sequence unfolds as follows:

1. The customer initiates an espresso order (an event), and the barista receives the order details.
2. Subsequently, the barista processes the order and begins crafting the espresso (a response to the event).

In this coffee shop scenario, event-driven architecture mirrors the seamless flow of orders and drinks without any disruption, ensuring a smooth and efficient operation.
```

> Chan is now curious about how AsyncAPI can help develop event-driven architecture.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Chan asks Eve how the AsyncAPI specification impacts the event-driven architecture world.
```

## Event-driven architecture with AsyncAPI

> "AsyncAPI simplifies the definition of communication and message exchange among different components in an Event-Driven Architecture (EDA). It provides a structured way to describe events, channels, and message formats, enhancing overall understanding.
> 
> AsyncAPI simplifies the definition of communication and messages between different components. AsyncAPI offers a structured way to describe the events, channels, and message formats.
> 
> AsyncAPI helps you define asynchronous APIs. But what is an asynchronous API?
> 
> They are like digital mailboxes where you can send messages without waiting for an instant reply. When the other person reads your letter and has something to say, they will reply. 
> 
> Async API helps map out events and their response in an EDA.
> 
> Chan spots cake in Eve's kitchen and asks for a slice as she likes cakes. While offering her a slice, Eve gives her an example: imagine a birthday party with events like cake cutting and gift opening. These events trigger responses, such as singing during the cake cutting or clapping while opening the gifts.
> 
> AsyncAPI helps organize events, determining when they'll occur and how everyone should react. For example, during the cake cutting, AsyncAPI guides in singing the birthday song. It also enables the creation of a party schedule, like cutting the cake at 6 pm and opening gifts at 7 pm.
> 
> Here are reasons why using AsyncAPI enhances EDA design:
> 
> * AsyncAPI plans and describes each event and it corresponding reactions across different components.
> * AsyncAPI facilitates communication between different components for seamless information exchange.
> * AsyncAPI allows components to complete tasks independently without waiting.
> 
> Eve further assists Chan in understanding how AsyncAPI can enhance communication between microservices."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
AsyncAPI simplifies the definition of communication and message exchange among different components in an Event-Driven Architecture (EDA). It provides a structured way to describe events, channels, and message formats, enhancing overall understanding.

AsyncAPI helps you define asynchronous APIs. Asynchronous APIs are like digital mailboxes where you can send messages without waiting for an instant reply. When the other person reads your letter and has something to say, they will reply. AsyncAPI maps out events and their responses in an EDA.

Chan spots cake in Eve's kitchen and asks for a slice as she likes cakes. While offering her a slice, Eve gives an example: imagine a birthday party with events like cake cutting and gift opening. These events trigger responses, such as singing during the cake-cutting or clapping while opening the gifts.

AsyncAPI helps organize events, determining when they'll occur and how everyone should react. For example, during the cake cutting, AsyncAPI guides in singing the birthday song. It also enables the creation of a party schedule, like cutting the cake at 6 pm and opening gifts at 7 pm.

Here are reasons why using AsyncAPI enhances EDA design:

* AsyncAPI plans and describes each event and its corresponding reactions across different components.
* AsyncAPI facilitates communication between different components for seamless information exchange.
* AsyncAPI allows components to complete tasks independently without waiting.

Eve goes on to show Chan how AsyncAPI can enhance communication between microservices.
```

## Microservices with AsyncAPI

> In a microservices architecture, each microservice represents a specific function. Different microservices communicate using events, much like teams collaborating on tasks. For example, one team handles baking the birthday cake, while another focuses on decorating the room. These teams must communicate to share their progress.
> 
> AsyncAPI helps different microservices communicate with each other. For microservices to talk to each other, they would have to:
> 
> * Define how to send and receive messages
> * Schedule when to send these messages
> * Ensure consistent language in messages
> 
> AsyncAPI ensures that each microservice knows what information it will receive, how it will receive it, and what it should do with it. AsyncAPI helps document interactions between microservices for developers developer understanding and integration.
> 
> Now, with coffee in hand, Eve and Chan are ready to step into Chan's spaceship to enhance its communication system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a microservices architecture, each microservice represents a specific function. Different microservices communicate using events, similar to how teams collaborate on tasks. For example, one team handles baking the birthday cake, while another focuses on decorating the room. These teams must communicate to share their progress.

For AsyncAPI to help different microservices communicate with each other, they must:

* Define how to send and receive messages
* Schedule when to send these messages
* Ensure consistent language in messages

AsyncAPI ensures that each microservice knows what information it will receive, how it will receive, and what it should do with it. 

Now, with coffee in hand, Eve and Chan are ready to step into Chan's spaceship to enhance its communication system.
```
